Now let's talk about cross zone balancing.
So let's take an example of a very imbalanced situation
but it will illustrate the point.
So we two availability zones
and the first one has a load balancer
with two EC2 instances.
And the second one also has a load balancer.
So a load balancer instance obviously,
with eight EC2 instances.
The Load balance serves instances are part
of the same more general load balancer.
So the client is accessing these load balancers.
And so with cross zone load balancing
each load balancer instance will distribute evenly
across all registered instances in all availability zones.
So the client itself is sending 50%
of the traffic to the first ALB instance
and 50% of traffic to the other ALB instance.
But each ALB is going to redirect the traffic
across all 10 EC2 instances
regardless of which availability zones they're in.
This is why it's called cross zone load balancing.
So if you take a look at the first
at the second ALB, sorry instance
it's going to send 10% of the traffic it receives, okay?
To all these instances because we have 10 instances.
So each of them gets 10% of the traffic.
And same story with the first ALB instance.
It's going to send also 10%
of traffic to all these instances.
So in this example with cross zone balancing
we are distributing the traffic evenly
across all EC2 instances.
And then maybe something you want to have or not, who knows
but at least this behavior is available to you.
The second behavior that's available
to you is to not have cross zone balancing.
So we take the same example
but without cross zone balancing.
The requests, the requests, sorry, are distributed
in the instances of the node of the elastic load balancer.
So in this example, what we have is that the client
sends 50% of the traffic to the first AZ and the 50%
of traffic to the second AZ, okay?
But the first ALB instance is going to send the traffic
to only the EC2 instances in its region.
So that means that each EC2 instance in this sorry ability
zone is going to get 25% of the traffic overall, okay?
So half and half.
And the one on the right hand side will again divide
up the traffic it receives into the EC2 instances
that are registered within its AZ.
So AZ2.
So we can see here without cross balancing
the traffic is contained within each AZ.
But if there are an imbalanced number of EC2 instances
in each AZ, then some EC2 instances of a specific AZ we'll
receive more traffic than others.
It's just an option to know about.
There's no right or wrong answer.
It depends on the use case, obviously.
So for the application balancer, by default
cross zone load balancing is going to be enabled
but you can disable it at the target group level and
there's going to be no charges
if your data goes across availability zones
because usually in AWS, if data goes
from one AZ to another one, you're going to pay some money.
But for the application balancer
because cross zone lowdown is enabled by default
you won't have any charges for inter AZ data.
Now, if you consider the network load balancer
and the gateway load balancer,
then cross zone load balancing is disabled by default.
And if you enable it
then you're going to pay some amount of money
because the data is going to go from one AZ to the next.
Finally, for the classic load balancer
it is disabled by default, and in case you enable it
you're not going to be charged for inter AZ data transfers.
Okay, so just for the sake of doing a hands on
I've created a workload balancer, an application balancer
and a gateway load balancer.
So let's first have a look at the network load balancer.
So if I scroll down and click on attributes, as you can see
cross zone low balancing is off
but I can edit this and turn this on.
And as you can see, I will enable cross zone balancing
and this may include some regional charges for your NLB.
So this is a similar setting for the gateway low balancer
because they have a similar behavior in that regard.
So for the attributes, again, cross zone
load balancing is off
but I can edit it and turn it on.
And this will imply data charges.
Now if you have a look at the application load balancer
it is a little bit different.
So if you go to attributes
you can see that cross zone load balancing is on by default.
And if I edit this and and scroll down, as you can see
I will show you in a second.
As you can see, the cross zone balancing is always on,
okay?
And this message
you can discard it because I think it's wrong.
But anyway, so cross zone load balancing
is always on for your ALB.
But if you go to your actual target group, so if I go
to my target group that has been created for this and I go
to attributes of the target group, we can actually do edit.
And for the cross zone load balancing here, we can
either inherit settings from the low balancer attributes
which is on by default or force on or off
and turn it off for that one specific target group.
And when it comes
to doing the demo for the classic load balancer,
I will not include it this time
because the classic load balancer is going away.
It is previous generation
and is going to be retired very soon.
So I don't think you will need to know
about it for the exam.
Okay, so let's see.
For this lecture, just make sure
if you wanted to follow along to delete the load balancers.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.